[Back to Reading Notes](./README.md)

---

# Class 6: NODE.JS

## This topic matters as it relates to what I am studying in this module because...

Node will allow me to enhance my websites, so I can run a server and use a database.

## An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com

### What is node.js?

Node allows JavaScript to be used in the server environment.  Stack Overflow defines it as an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.

### In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?

The V8 engine is Google’s JavaScript compiler.  It typically runs in the browser but can also be used in other environments, such as on a server.

### What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?

Runtime the stage of the programming lifecycle where the code is executed in a particular environment.  Node is a particular environment (independent of the Browser) where your JS code will run..
 
### What is npm?

Node Package Manager.  It puts modules in place so that node can locate them and helps manages dependency conflicts.

### What version of node are you running on your machine?

v18.12.1

### What version of npm are you running on your machine?

8.19.2
 
### What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?

npm install jshint

### What is node used for?

Typicall, it is used to run JavaScript on the server.

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

### What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?

1. Greater efficiency
2. Engaged collaboration
3. Learning from fellow students
4. Social skills
5. Job interview readiness
6. Work environment readiness

### In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?

Currently, learning from fellow students.  Other students have introduced me to different ways of thinking.  For example, instead of looping through an array to find something, you might convert it to a string before using a regular expression to find it.

### How does pair programming work?

One person is coding/driving while the other person is giving directions and doing code review.

## Things I want to know more about.

I think I understand the event loop but hope to have a better understanding after working with node.

## Links to reading material

[An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com](https://www.sitepoint.com/an-introduction-to-node-js/)

[6 Reasons for Pair Programming](https://www.codefellows.org/blog/6-reasons-for-pair-programming/)

---
