[Back to Reading Notes](./README.md)

---

# Class 12: CRUD

## This topic matters as it relates to what I am studying in this module because...

Being able to create, read, update, delete will allow me to store and modify data.

## Status Codes Based On REST Methods

In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

* 100’s = This status tells the client that the header portion of the request has been received.
* 200’s = Success status
* 300’s = Redirection codes
* 400’s = Client error codes
* 500’s = Server error codes

What is a status code 202?

The request was  was valid but the server will finish processing it later.  Often used with asynchronous processing.

What is a status code 308?

Permanent redirect, which tells the client to start using a another URL to access the resource, since there is another endpoint that points to the resource.

What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?

204

What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?

410

What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?

403

## Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick

Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?

To hide private information.  We don’t want people to access to sensitive data.

What is middleware?

Code that gets run after getting a request but before it is used by your routes.

What does app.use(express.json()) do?

This allows the express server to accept JSON inside a request body.

What does the /:id mean in a route?

It means it is a param that can be accessed request.params.id

What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?

patch updates the specific model based off of what the user passed as params, where put updates the entire record.

How do you make a default value in a schema?

With the default property.  For example, default: <default-value-here>

What does a 500 error status code mean?

There was an error on the server.

What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?

200 is when the response is okay.  201 is when a resource was created.

## Things I want to know more about.

It still kind of feels like I am blindly accepting what the mongoose and express methods do, but I'm sure I'll get used to them after using them for a while.

## Links to reading material

[Status Codes Based On REST Methods](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)

[Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFbNIlppjAuEX4znoulh0Cw)

---
