[Back to Reading Notes](./README.md)

---

# Class 5: Putting it all together

## This topic matters as it relates to what I am studying in this module because...

I have learned a lot of different React pieces and this topic will help me better understand and strategize a way to build more efficient React applications.

## React Docs - Thinking in React

### What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

A developer should aim to have each component do only one thing.  If it begins to become more complex, then the developer should attempt to break it up into smaller simpler components. 

### What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

A static version of your React app should only render the modal of the data.  This phase is for working on structuring and developing your components.

### Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

State, so you can add interactivity.

### What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

To help determine if something is state, you should ask if the following are true:

1. Is it NOT passed in from a parent via props?
2. Does it change over time?
3. Can you not compute it based on any other state or props in your component?

### How can you identify where state needs to live?

Identify every component that renders something off of the state data, then find a common ancestor or if you need, create a new component to hold state that state.

## Higher-Order Functions

### What is a “higher-order function”?

Any function that operates on another function is a higher order function.  Specifically, functions that either return a functions or take in a function.

### Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?

Line 2 is returning a reference to a function that has been set to compare the number argument passed to it to the value 10;

### Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.

...

## Things I want to know more about or found interesting.

1. I should not store data that won’t change in state, such as the horned beast data in my project.  That should be a property.

2. I can create new components for the sole purpose of holding state.

## Links to reading material

[React Docs - Thinking in React](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

[Higher-Order Functions](https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK)

---
