[Back to Reading Notes](./README.md)

---

# Class 3: Passing Functions as Props

## This topic matters as it relates to what I am studying in this module because...

Knowing how to maintain the parents “this” context is extremely important when updating state.  If done improperly, then the child component will not be able to access and update state.

## React Docs - lists and keys

### What does .map() return?

> A new array of the exact same length.

### If I want to loop through an array and display each value in JSX, how do I do that in React?

      items.map(item => <div>{item}</div>);

### Each list item needs a unique ____.

> Key

### What is the purpose of a key?

> Keys help React keep track of changes, so it can rerender.

## The Spread Operator

### What is the spread operator?

> Thy syntax of the spread operator is an ellipsis of three dots (…), which expand an iterable object.

### List 4 things that the spread operator can do.

> Adding an item to a list, using an array as arguments, concatenating or combining arrays, copying an array.

### Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two arrays.

       const array1 = [1,2,3];
       const array2 = [4,5,6];
       const newArray = [...array1, ...array2];

### Give an example of using the spread operator to add a new item to an array.

       const array1 = [1,2,3];
       const newArray = [...array1, 4];
            

### Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two objects into one.

       const obj1 = {name: "Doug"};
       const obj2 = {name: "Timmy"};
       const newObj = {...obj1, ...obj2};

> ## How to Pass Functions Between Components

### In the video, what is the first step that the developer does to pass functions between components?

> The first step is to set up the method so it will maintain its current “this” context.  He does this by using an arrow function.

### In your own words, what does the increment function do?

> The increment function takes a string before then looping through an array of objects in the state.  If there is a match on the name property, then the count property increases by 1.  After the new array is finished, the people property in state is updated with the new array of objects.

### How can you pass a method from a parent component into a child component?

> You pass a method from a parent component into a child component through props.

### How does the child component invoke a method that was passed to it from a parent component?

> After the child component receives the the method through props, it would invoke it with the following

    this.props.parentMethod();


## Things I want to know more about.

I’d like to continue learning about the different ways to bind a method’s “this” context to the parent class.  I know of 3 different ways, at the moment.  

1) using an arrow function
2) binding the method in the class body with .bind()
3) creating a property in the constructor, assigning the instance method there, and then binding it with .bind().

It sounds like it’s a bad idea to try to bind the function when passing the reference in props because a new reference in memory will be created on each component re-render.

## Links to reading material

[How to Use the Spread Operator (…) in JavaScript](https://medium.com/coding-at-dawn/how-to-use-the-spread-operator-in-javascript-b9e4a8b06fab)

[React - How to Pass Functions between Components](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c05OL7XbwXU)

[Lifting State Up](https://reactjs.org/docs/lifting-state-up.html)

[Lists and Keys](https://reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html)

---
