[Back to Reading Notes](./README.md)

---

# Class 11: Title

## This topic matters as it relates to what I am studying in this module because...

Learning how databases work will allow me to store large amounts of data long term.

## nosql vs sql

### Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:

| SQL                                                 | noSQL|
| :---                                                |:---  |
| Are table based databases                           | Are document based, key-value pairs, graph databases or wide-column stores|
| Predefined schemas                                  | Dynamic schema for unstructured data|
| Vertically scalable (require more power to expand)  | Horizontally scalable by adding more servers|
| Use structured query language for defining and manipulating the data| Queries are focused on collection of documents. |
| Better for complex queries                          | Better for large data and scalability              |

### What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?

Complex transactional applications.

### Give a real world example.

An example might be the needing to sort or filter through complex financial data.

### What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?

Data that will continue to grow and change.

### Give a real world example.

An example might be a social media site that will continue to add new users and new types of data.

### Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?

noSQL

### Which type of database is best for scalability?

noSQL

## sql vs nosql

### What does SQL stand for?

Structured Query Language

### What is a relational database?

A database that organizes data by tables that have predefined relationships.

### What type of structure does a relational database work with?

Tables that are related.

### What is a ‘schema’?

A defined key value structure for the data.

### What is a NoSQL database?

nonStructured Query Language.

### How does it work?

Typically, a collection of key value paired data, such as JSON, is accessed when the user goes to a certain url endpoint.

### What is inside of a MongoDB database?

A MongoDB database contains the collections of documents.

### Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.

MongoDB, since you don’t have to follow a strict schema.

### What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?

If you need to constantly update a users data, this could be difficult since the user might have multiple documents that are related to them.

## Things I want to know more about.

How to plan and design a noSQL database when you don’t necessarily know what the future data will look like.  Is it easy to go back and modify/combine old data with new data?

## Links to reading material

[nosql vs sql](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2014/01/sql-vs-nosql-db/?utm_source=tuicool)

[sql vs nosql](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS_kXvOeQ5Y)

[mongoose api](https://mongoosejs.com/docs/api.html#Model)

[React Router](https://reactrouter.com/en/6.8.1/router-components/browser-router)

---
