[Back to Reading Notes](./README.md)

---

# Class 9: Functional Programming

## This topic matters as it relates to what I am studying in this module because...

Keeping functions pure is important in React, so React can tell which components need to be rendered.  If they are mutated, then React can’t tell if state has changed.

## Functional Programming Concepts

### What is functional programming?

Functional programming focuses on immutability and pure.  The same input should return the same result.

### What is a pure function and how do we know if something is a pure function?

The same input should return the same output because there shouldn't be any references to other objects outside of the function scope.

### What are the benefits of a pure function?

You are less likely to have side effects such as variables changing and by not functions depend on other functions, your code is less likely to break.

### What is immutability?

Immutability relates to an object not being able to updated.  It’s possible to change reference based variables, such as arrays and object litterals, but not value base primitive objects such as strings, numbers, booleans.

### What is Referential transparency?

if a function consistently yields the same result for the same input, it is referentially transparent.

## Node JS Tutorial for Beginners #6 - Modules and require()

### What is a module?

...

### What does the word ‘require’ do?

...

### How do we bring another module into the file the we are working in?

...

### What do we have to do to make a module available?

...

## Things I want to know more about.

...

## Links to reading material

[Functional Programming Concepts](https://medium.com/the-renaissance-developer/concepts-of-functional-programming-in-javascript-6bc84220d2aa)

[Node JS Tutorial for Beginners #6 - Modules and require()](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xHLd36QoS4k)

---
