[Back to Reading Notes](./README.md)

---

# In memory storage

## This topic matters as it relates to what I am studying in this module because...

Understanding the call stack and error messages will help me debug my code faster.

## Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack

### What is a ‘call’?

function invocation.

### How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?

one.

### What does LIFO mean?

Last in, first out.

### Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.

    // Call stack:

    // console.log
    // function foo
    // function bar
    // function biz


    function foo(){
      console.log('hello');
    };

    function bar(){
      foo();
    };
    
    function biz(){
      bar();
    };

    biz();

### What causes a Stack Overflow?

a recursive function without an exit point.

## JavaScript error messages

### What is a ‘reference error’?

This error occurs when you try to use a variable that isn’t declared yet.

### What is a ‘syntax error’?

When you try to parse an invalid object.

### What is a ‘range error’?

This error occurs when you try to change an object that has a certain length by giving it an invalid length.

### What is a ‘type error’?

This error occurs when you try to access a method or property on a variable that doesn’t have that specific one.

### What is a breakpoint?

A point set in the code that will pause the execution for debugging.

### What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?

Putting this in your code will pause it in the console.

## Things I want to know more about.

More experience debugging in the console by adding breakpoints, in order to walk through the code step by step.

## Links to reading material

[Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-javascript-call-stack-861e41ae61d4)

[JavaScript error messages](https://codeburst.io/javascript-error-messages-debugging-d23f84f0ae7c)

[JavaScript errors reference on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Errors)

---
