[Back to Reading Notes](./README.md)

---

# Class 4: React and Forms

## This topic matters as it relates to what I am studying in this module because...

By using forms we can capture the user's input to update state.  This will allow us to make our SPAs very dynamic.

## React Docs - Forms

### What is a ‘Controlled Component’?

A controlled component is a form component that React updates state with and controls what happens inside the user input elements.

### Should we wait to store the users responses from the form into state when they submit the form OR should we update the state with their responses as soon as they enter them? Why.?

As soon as they enter them, so the values are captured without the need to submit the form.  By not waiting until the user submits the form, other elements might be able to be updated based off of their values or the user might never click the submit button.

### How do we target what the user is entering if we have an event handler on an input field??

onChange

## The Conditional (Ternary) Operator Explained

### Why would we use a ternary operator?

It shortens the if statement into 1 line of code.  This might be useful when we want to conditionally render components in JSX.

### Rewrite the following statement using a ternary statement:

    console.log(x===y ? true : false);

## Things I want to know more about.

I haven’t nested ternary operators or done multiple operations with them, so I’m interested in experimenting with that.

## Links to reading material

[Conditional Rendering](https://reactjs.org/docs/conditional-rendering.html)

[Forms](https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html)

[Forms](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/forms/overview/)

[JavaScript — The Conditional (Ternary) Operator Explained](https://codeburst.io/javascript-the-conditional-ternary-operator-explained-cac7218beeff)

---
